Ever think about cheating on a quiz, copying a friend’s paper or asking someone
to do your work for you? These thoughts probably cross everyone’s mind at one
time or another. But according to the Boise State University’s Student Code of
Conduct, these kinds of actions could lead to failing a course or worse. WHAT
IS ACADEMIC INTEGRITY (AI), OR, ACADEMIC HONESTY?

This course helps spell out the ins and outs of this important topic. This
course focuses on helping you learn about the academic Student Code of Conduct
and the importance of academic integrity. This course is set up in four modules:

Module 1: Cheating Module 2: Plagiarism Module 3: Other Forms of Academic
Dishonesty Module 4: Academic Integrity It should take less than an hour to
complete all four modules. But before we begin, let’s look at Boise State’s
academic integrity statement. The AI statement states:

“The university’s goal is to foster an intellectual atmosphere that produces
educated, literate people. Because cheating and plagiarism are at odds with
that goal, those actions shall not be tolerated in any form. Students are
expected to adhere to the rules and regulations as set forth in the Student
Code of Conduct. Therefore, all work submitted by a student must represent that
student’s own ideas and effort; when the work does not, the student has engaged
in academic dishonesty.” Academic Integrity Statement The first and second
sentences focus on a university’s reputation. Universities these days are under
increased scrutiny and competition. Where you get your degree is more important
than ever. When you apply for a job, you want employers to see that your degree
is from Boise State and have that mean something. We all must continue to build
upon Boise State’s tradition of excellence and scholastic integrity.
“Scholastic integrity” in this case means you can trust that the education you
receive at the University was earned through hard work and dedication to your
coursework. That’s where academic honesty starts. The third and fourth
sentences get to the heart of the matter. Were you aware that by taking courses
at Boise State that you have agreed to maintain the highest standards of
intellectual honesty and ethical conduct in all your academic work? Well you
have! This course focuses on helping you understand what it means to “maintain
the highest standards of intellectual honesty” by focusing on common ways that
students violate the Student Code of Conduct so that you can maintain academic
integrity in your course work and uphold Boise State University’s Shared Values.

[Place attribution text here]

