OTHER FORMS OF ACADEMIC DISHONESTY
Sure, plagiarism and cheating are the two most frequent ways students violate the Student Code of Conduct, but there are other ways. Some of them might surprise you! Most notable are:
●	fabrication (briefly mentioned in Module 2),
●	multiple submission,
●	misrepresentation of academic records
●	unauthorized collaboration/collusion
●	research misconduct

In this module, we will cover each of these in more detail to ensure that you are aware of what these are and how to avoid doing them.


OTHER FORMS OF ACADEMIC DISHONESTY
Fabrication
Imagine this Scenario
Did Raul violate the Student Code of Conduct?
Fabrication and Falsification
Imagine this Scenario
Falsification often involves falsifying data in a study.
Multiple Submission
Misrepresentation of Academic Records
Unauthorized collaboration/collusion
Research misconduct
Consider this Situation
Check to See What You Learned




Fabrication
While fabrication is not as prevalent as plagiarism or cheating, it is just as serious. According to the Student Code of Conduct, "fabrication includes the unauthorized falsification, invention of information, or the submitting of contrived or altered information in an academic exercise" (Student Code of Conduct ).
Earlier when learning about plagiarism, we talked specifically about fabricating sources. But students can violate the Student Code of Conduct by inventing or counterfeiting just about anything.
Imagine this Scenario
Raul's hours have been cut at work. He isn't sure how he is going to pay his tuition next semester. He found out about a new departmental scholarship that he plans to apply for. However, after reading the criteria for the scholarship, he realizes that there is a huge emphasis on community service. Raul has been working since he was 14 years old and hasn't had the privilege to volunteer in the community like his peers. It's not his fault that he has spent all his free time working. Therefore, he feels justified in making up some volunteer experience in his application for the scholarship. Continuing his education depends largely on whether or not he receives this scholarship.
Did Raul violate the Student Code of Conduct?
While we all can sympathize with Raul's situation, this "little" fabrication is a violation of the Student Code of Conduct and could result in some serious consequences. This type of academic dishonesty is not tolerated at Boise State and is simply not worth the risk in the long run. Raul would be better off taking a semester off looking for alternative scholarships than risk the possible consequences of academic misconduct.
Let’s take a deeper look at this concept. Fabrication may include, but is not limited to: “making up data for an experiment, citing nonexistent journal articles, creating false journal articles or contriving sources" (Student Code of Conduct ). Now you might be wondering when or why a student would ever do this. The following is an example of when a student might feel the temptation to falsify results.
Imagine this Scenario
Zack has been working on a research project for his sociology course. He has spent months working on this project and interviewing subjects. After his initial data analysis he finds that there is not a statistically significant difference in his findings as he expected. He can't believe this. After reviewing the data he finds that there is one subject he interviewed who just didn't seem right. So Zack deleted this person's answers and re-ran the numbers and at last found that there was a statistically significant difference once he deleted this one person's answers. Zack feels okay about this. As he reflects on interviewing this one person, he decides that this person just wasn't taking the interview seriously enough.
Falsification often involves falsifying data in a study, which may also be considered Research Misconduct.
While Zack tries to come up with a good reason for falsifying his data to get the results he wanted after the fact, this type of behavior is dishonest and a clear violation of the Student Code of Conduct. Altering or changing data to simply get the results you want to see is never okay. Even if you have spent months or even years on a project, it is never okay to falsify data. Consult a faculty member if you are ever unsure and always strive to be as transparent as possible (documenting any and all decisions to add or delete data) in research you conduct.
Multiple Submission
“Multiple submission violations include submitting, without prior permission from the course instructor, any work previously submitted to fulfill another academic requirement:” (Student Code of Conduct).
Students are often surprised to learn that submitting a paper they wrote to more than one class without the instructor’s consent is considered misconduct and a violation of the Student Code of Conduct.
The key to avoiding multiple submission is to simply talk to your instructor about work you have done in prior courses and whether or not you can submit it as is or build upon it for your current course or whether any work from a previous course is disallowed.





Misrepresentation of Academic Records
Having academic integrity and sticking by the Student Code of Conduct goes well beyond not plagiarizing or cheating. It also entails maintaining honest academic records. “Misrepresentation of academic records includes falsifying, tampering or attempting to tamper with any portion of a student’s transcripts or academic record, either before or after coming to Boise State”.

Unauthorized Collaboration/Collusion
Part of maintaining academic integrity includes working independently on assigned projects. According to the Student Code of Conduct “students should complete all academic coursework and assignments on their own, unless otherwise instructed and granted permission by the instructor. Working with others on an assignment unless it has been explicitly permitted by the faculty member is not allowed”.

Research Misconduct
While research misconduct is relatively uncommon, it is just as important to understand. “Research misconduct, which includes but is not limited to, sabotage of another’s experiment or research and/or fabrication, falsification of data, or plagiarism in proposing, performing, or reviewing research, or in reporting research results”.




Check to See What You Learned
1.  True or False: It is a serious violation to fabricate (i.e., invent or counterfeit) information but there really isn't much a college or university can do about it if it doesn't happen in a specific class.
●	 True
●	 False [Correct! If you are caught fabricating information, depending on the infraction, you could be expelled form the university.]
2. Max is completing an internship as part of his capstone. He needs a total of 100 hours. However, he has only completed 85 hours. He got the paperwork documenting his hours signed early because his supervisor was leaving town. His supervisor left the total hours completed section blank. Max filled in 100 hours even though he only completed 85. This is an example of:
●	 a. Fabrication
●	 b. Misrepresentation of academic records [Correct! This is a clear case of falsification because Max deliberately altered results of an academic exercise.]
●	 c. Multiple submission
●	 d. This isn't a violation of the Student Code of Conduct
3. Kelly went to a writer's camp the summer before her freshman year in college. She wrote a short -story that she was really proud of. She later took a creative writing course at Boise State and turned in the paper for credit. True or False: This is not an example of multiple submission.
●	 True [Correct! Yes, this is not an example of multiple submission because Kelly hadn't received prior credit for this paper. However, there is an assumption in college courses that you are completing the assignments for any given course during that given semester. To be safe, Kelly should have approached her instructor and asked if it was okay to turn in a paper previously written (even if it wasn't for credit).]
●	 False
4. Julie is working on a M.A. in History. She has a 20 page paper due Monday in which she must cite a minimum of 20 sources. She’s spent all weekend working on it and she notices she only has 17 citations in her paper. She really wants to get an “A” but she knows she needs three more citations or this won’t be possible. Julie adds a few citations from an undergrad book she used because she thinks it supports one of her claims, but she does not take time to check. True or False, Julie’s act is less serious than someone who copied complete paragraphs, without citations, into their paper.
●	True
●	False [Correct! One act of misconduct is not “more serious” than any other. Fabricating sources and copying word-for-word material are taken seriously at Boise State and are both violations of the academic Student Code of Conduct.
5. You and your roommate are taking the same course with the same instructor. Your section though is on Mondays and Wednesdays while his is on Tuesdays and Thursdays. You just got finished taking your midterm and your roommate asks how the exam went and what was on it. You mention a few questions that stumped you. This is an example of unauthorized collaboration/collusion.
●	 True [Correct! While this might seem like an innocent thing to do and something that many of us have done countless times without ever thinking we were doing anything wrong, this is an example of helping someone else cheat by giving them unfair advantage. In other words, this is "unauthorized assistance.".]
●	 False


