What is Plagiarism? At Boise State plagiarism is defined as “…the using of
ideas, data, or language of another as one’s own without specific or proper
acknowledgment or citation.” (Student Code of Conduct). Simply put, plagiarism
is the act of copying someone’s idea or words and acting like they are your
own. The key to avoiding plagiarism is simply to acknowledge any ideas or words
of others that you use. This might seem strange. In some cultures copying
another’s work is an act of flattery. But in the U.S. and specifically at Boise
State, copying another’s work—whether it’s ideas, words, or even things like
images—without acknowledging where they came from is an act of plagiarism and a
violation of Boise State’s academic Student Code of Conduct.

IMAGINE THIS SCENARIO

John is working on a paper about Mark Twain. He begins searching the Internet
for sources and ideas. He copies a paragraph about Mark Twain’s early life from
Wikipedia and pastes it into his paper. Wikipedia is different from traditional
books in that there isn’t a clearly identified author. John isn’t sure how to
cite this. He plans to ask a friend how to cite the paragraph from Wikipedia,
but ends up coming down with the flu the week before the paper is due. As a
result, he stays up late the night before the paper is due and completely
forgets to appropriately cite the quote and turns in the paper. Did John
Plagiarize? Should John be kicked out of school? You will be able to answer
questions like these by the end of the Plagiarism module.

How do students plagiarize? How to avoid doing it? Students often plagiarize
simply because they are unaware of what plagiarism is and when they are or are
not doing it. Going over some ways students plagiarize will help you understand
what plagiarism is and how to avoid it.

THERE ARE SIX MAIN WAYS PEOPLE PLAGIARIZE:

word-for-word copying of another person’s ideas or words; the mosaic (the
interspersing of one’s own words here and there while, in essence, copying
another’s work); the paraphrase (the rewriting of another’s work, yet still
using their fundamental idea or theory); fabrication (inventing or
counterfeiting sources); submission of another’s work as one’s own; neglecting
quotation marks on material that is otherwise acknowledged. (University
Catalog) Some of these might be familiar. Others might be new to you. In the
following pages you will learn what each of these are and how to avoid making
any of these mistakes.

Word-for-word Copying of Another Person’s Ideas or Words IMAGINE THIS SCENARIO

Amy has a paper due tomorrow but her sister just scored some free tickets to a
great show that starts in a few hours. Amy explains that she can’t go because
she put off working on a paper for her psychology course. Her sister asks about
the paper and explains that Amy is in luck because she has a few psychology
papers that Amy can likely use. Amy isn’t sure about this. She knows she is a
fast writer and could finish the paper on her own if she just had the time. And
she has already written half of it. Her sister emails her three papers and Amy
realizes that if she just copies and pastes a few paragraphs here and there
that she will be able to knock out this paper in no time. So she uses some of
her sister’s work word-for-word, heads to the show, and even gets an A on the
paper. Did Amy Plagiarize? Yes! Word-for-word copying is when you copy someone
else’s words whether from a book, the Web, another student’s paper, or even
words spoken and pretend that these are your own words. It doesn’t matter if
it’s only one or two sentences or a complete paragraph—word-for-word copying of
another’s work without attribution is plagiarism.

The key to avoiding word-for-word copying is to attribute anything you take
word-for-word to the original author. Typically you do this by adding quotation
marks around the word-for-word text you copied and adding a citation.

NOTE

“Cite” is short for citation. To cite or citing is a way to reference sources
that you use to support your claims. Citations generally appear in your paper
in parentheses after the quote or as a footnote or endnote.

Citing Different academic disciplines have specific rules for citing sources
usually defined in a style guide. MLA, APA, and Chicago are three popular style
guides. While they each have their differences, they typically require the
following when citing a direct word-for-word quote:

add quotation marks around the word-for-word copied text; follow the closing
quotation marks with a citation to the author’s last name and a page # of where
the quote came from; add a reference list with the author and publication
information for the source quoted. You need to know the style guide used in
your discipline. Ask all of your instructors how to cite sources in your papers
and other academic projects. While style guides focus on traditional papers,
you should follow the same principles with other academic projects, such as
PowerPoint presentations and web pages. For instance, you can add quotation
marks around text copied word-for-word and provide the citation in the notes
section of PowerPoint. For creative work, you can add a credits addendum. With
software and web-based projects, you can even place comments in your code.

Back to our example: To avoid plagiarizing, Amy should’ve appropriately quoted
and cited her sister’s papers. While she wouldn’t have gotten an “A” on her
paper—because most instructors wouldn’t consider her sister’s papers valid
sources of information—she would not have committed plagiarism. So the lesson
here is to always quote and cite (i.e., attribute) any time you use someone
else’s words in your academic work. If you aren’t sure how to do this, ask your
instructor or visit the CUDenver Writing Center.

Plagiarism Pitfalls — The Mosaic Once you understand the basic idea of
plagiarism, it’s easy to stay out of trouble, right? Unfortunately, there are a
number of pitfalls you should be aware of in the plagiarism jungle.

The mosaic—which is the “interspersing of one’s own words here and there while,
in essence, copying another’s work” (University Catalog)—is another way
students plagiarize. It sounds complicated. But it’s very similar to copying
word-for-word and if you aren’t careful, it’s easy to do. The main difference
is that the “Mosaic” involves taking someone else’s words word-for-word, then
changing a few words here or there while failing to add quotations around the
copied material or citing the original source.

THE FOLLOWING IS AN EXAMPLE OF WHAT “THE MOSAIC” LOOKS LIKE:

Text from the Original Source "The name 'Auraria,' meaning 'Gold Town,' was one
of two suggested by Dr. L. J. Russell and appears for the first time in the
title of the constitution. Auraria was the name of Doctor Russell's home town
in Lupkin County, Georgia, where gold 'diggings' existed then and which are
still being worked.

Auraria was in this way the first town that was established at the mouth of
Cherry Creek and was the nucleus of the present City of Denver. Here many of
the first features of Colorado, including the first newspaper, the first
Protestant church and the first church school were started." (Stone, 1918, p.
140).

Reference Stone, W. F. (1918). History of Colorado (vol. 4). Chicago, IL: S. J.
Clarke Publishing.

Paragraph in a Student's Paper

The name Auraria means Gold Town. It was one of two suggested by Dr. L. J.
Russell and appears for the first time in the constitution. Auraria was in this
way the first town to be established at the mouth of the Cherry Creek and was
the center of the present City of Denver. Many of the first features of
Colorado such as the first newspaper, church, and school were started in
Auraria.

Plagiarism Pitfalls — The Paraphrase Paraphrase, according to Merriam Webster,
is “a restatement of a text, passage, or work giving the meaning in another
form”. So to paraphrase is to put someone else’s words into your own words. In
many ways paraphrasing is a good thing and something faculty love to see. It
becomes a problem and act of plagiarism though when you paraphrase but fail to
cite the original author and do not give credit where the words came from.

Purdue University’s Online Writing Lab (OWL) is a great resource on academic
writing. They have identified some steps to follow to effectively paraphrase.

6 STEPS TO EFFECTIVE PARAPHRASING

Reread the original passage until you understand its full meaning. Set the
original aside, and write your paraphrase on a note card. Jot down a few words
below your paraphrase to remind you later how you envision using this material.
At the top of the note card, write a key word or phrase to indicate the subject
of your paraphrase. Check your rendition with the original to make sure that
your version accurately expresses all the essential information in a new form.
Use quotation marks to identify any unique term or phraseology you have
borrowed exactly from the source. Record the source (including the page) on
your note card so that you can credit it easily if you decide to incorporate
the material into your paper. (Purdue University’s Online Writing Lab (OWL))
HERE ARE WAYS THE STUDENT FROM THE PREVIOUS EXAMPLE COULD HAVE CORRECTLY USED
THE SOURCE WITHOUT PLAGIARIZING.

Poor Practice "The name 'Auraria'" (Stone, 1918, p. 140) means "'Gold Town'"
(p. 140). It "was one of two suggested by Dr. L. J. Russell and appears for the
first time in the... constitution" (p. 140). "Auraria was in this way the first
town ... [to be] established at the mouth of the Cherry Creek and was the...
[center] of the present City of Denver" (p. 140). "Many of the first features
of Colorado" (p. 140) such as the first newspaper, church, and school were
started in Auraria (p. 140).

Better According to Stone (1918), "the name 'Auraria,' meaning 'Gold Town,' was
one of two suggested by Dr. L. J. Russell" (p. 140). Stone explains that the
name Auraria "appears for the first time in the title of the constitution" (p.
140). He later points out that Auraria "was established at the mouth of Cherry
Creek and was the nucleus of the present City of Denver" (p. 140). He concludes
that "many of the first features of Colorado, including the first newspaper,
the first Protestant church and the first church school were started." (p.
140). So given these facts, it is obvious that Auraria played a key role in the
history of Denver and Colorado.

Best Although long forgotten as a town, Auraria was ahead of the new town of
Denver in many respects. According to Stone (1918), the areas first newspaper,
church and school were all in Auraria (p. 140).

While the first example isn’t plagiarizing, it’s awkward and faculty consider
it poor academic writing. The second example is much better because everything
is appropriately quoted and cited. But nearly every sentence includes a direct
quote There is little evidence of the student’s own thinking or writing. The
third example is better and clearly the best out of the three because it
paraphrases the original source.

Fabrication (Inventing or Counterfeiting Sources) IMAGINE THIS SCENARIO

Julie is working on a M.A. in History. She has a 20 page paper due Monday in
which she must cite a minimum of 20 sources. She’s spent all weekend working on
it. She notices that she only has 17 citations in her paper. She really wants
to get an “A” but she knows she needs three more citations or this won’t be
possible. She adds a citation to an undergraduate textbook she used because she
thinks it supports one of her claims but she doesn’t take the time to check.
She then does a Google search and finds an article that sounds similar to her
paper so she adds the citation without reading the article. Finally, she makes
up a citation to a book that doesn’t exist. She feels okay about this because
she really did spend over 20 hours working on this paper and she thinks she
shouldn’t be penalized because of a silly technicality. So is Julie's behavior
as bad as Amy who copied complete paragraphs word-for-word? Unfortunately, it
doesn’t matter. They are both acts of plagiarism and violations of the Student
Code of Conduct. The key to avoiding fabricating sources is to never ever
invent sources and to always check and double check a source before you cite it.

Submission of Another’s Work as One’s Own On the Web you can find papers on any
topic or even pay people to write papers for you. Plus nearly everyone knows
someone who has taken the same courses in the past. While it might be tempting
to submit someone else’s work as your own, it is plagiarism. Even when you are
in a bind and your grade is on the line, think twice before asking your
roommate or relative to help you finish a paper, take home quiz, or complete an
assignment. Asking for or receiving unauthorized help is a form of cheating.

You might be thinking, “How are they really going to catch me?” Perhaps you’ve
gotten away with it in the past or have friends who do it regularly. Well here
are a few ways faculty catch students doing this.

They learn students’ writing styles and often notice when something is
submitted written differently than previous work. Sometimes they even recognize
papers submitted from previous students. They use plagiarism detection tools
like SafeAssign or TurnItIn to scan students’ papers for plagiarism. These
tools compare students’ papers to a database of previously submitted papers, as
well as papers on the Web. Fellow students sometimes even tell faculty when
they learn another student is turning in someone else’s work. This might seem
confusing. There are instances in “the real world” where assistants write
letters for their bosses or speech writers write speeches for politicians, or
even when you might pay to have someone write a cover letter for you. But in
the university this behavior is against the rules and considered plagiarism.
For instance, a professor at Southern Illinois University was fired for copying
a philosophy of teaching statement from another professor (see: thesouthern.com
news article). He didn’t think that he was doing anything wrong (and many of
his peers agreed with him). But he no longer has a job at SIU due to his
actions.

It can get even more confusing when working in a group. Faculty often put
students in groups to brainstorm and collaborate. But being placed in a group
to work on an assignment does not mean that your instructor wants you to turn
in one group assignment or for you to use some of the work of your group
members as your own. So unless a faculty member tells you to write a paper with
your peers (which should make clear who contributed what), assume you should
never turn in the work of another as your own. If you aren’t sure, just ask!

Neglecting Quotation Marks on Material that is Otherwise Acknowledged “” So why
are quotation marks so important? Well, they show exactly where and what you
are copying word-for-word from another source. Neglecting quotation marks might
seem like an honest mistake, but failing to put quotation marks around text you
copy word-for-word, whether intentional or not, is plagiarism.

In fact, a professor at Rutgers University was accused of this very type of
plagiarism (see chronicle.com article). It was discovered that sections in his
books contained strings of text that were copied word-for-word from other
sources. While he cited the original works, he failed to put quotation marks
around specific words he copied word-for-word.

So Why Does this Matter? You might be thinking at this point, “Why does this
matter? What’s the big deal anyway?”

It matters because ideas are the currency of academia and originality is
valuable (even, or especially, when money isn’t involved). To steal another’s
ideas and falsely claim originality is to undermine the entire academic
endeavor. That is why plagiarizing is a violation of the Student code of
Conduct. Violations of the code can result in serious consequences—anything
from getting a zero on an assignment, a failing grade in the course, all the
way to suspension or even expulsion from the University. In fact, Boise State
can even put a notation on your transcript so other colleges or even future
employers are informed about the violation.

You are attending Boise State likely for a number of reasons, but first and
foremost is to learn. Investing in your own learning takes time and effort.
Cutting corners by plagiarizing will only hurt you in the long run because you
will not have acquired the skills and knowledge needed to be successful once
you graduate.

But we think the even bigger issue is that plagiarism compromises your
integrity. It also establishes a habit of unethical behavior that can follow
you the rest of your life. Whether you agree with it or not, in academia,
copying another’s work without attribution is breaking the rules and is
considered wrong. But even in creative fields like the arts, which might have a
long tradition of copying another’s work, we still believe it is important to
give credit where credit is due and attribute where you found your inspiration.

Check to See What You Learned 1. Plagiarism is a violation of the Student Code
of Conduct:

True Correct! Plagiarism is an act of academic dishonesty and a violation of
the Student Code of Conduct.

False Incorrect. Please try again. 2. Which of the following is not plagiarism:

a. Word-for-word copying of another person’s ideas or words Incorrect. Please
try again.

b. Submitting another's work as one's own Incorrect. Please try again.

c. Building an argument from multiple sources Correct! Building an argument
from multiple sources is not plagiarism as long as you attribute where your
ideas come from.

d. Fabricating sources Incorrect. Please try again. 3. Erica is taking an
online course and has to post 250-500 word responses to certain questions each
week in the threaded discussions. She found a great answer on the Web to this
week’s question. She copied and pasted it into the discussion forum without
acknowledging that it was copied word-for-word from another source. But because
this is a threaded discussion in an online course, Erica did not plagiarize.

True Incorrect. Please try again.

False Correct! This is plagiarism. While online discussions might seem less
formal than papers or other academic assignments, it is never okay to copy
someone else’s words and/or ideas and pretend like they are your own without
giving proper attribution. 4. Matt found a great quote on a Wikipedia for a
paper he is writing. He wants to add it to his paper but he isn’t sure how to
cite it. What should he do?

a. Not worry about the citation because his teacher didn't specify that he
needed to cite everything Incorrect. Please try again.

b. Don't use the quote in his paper Incorrect. Please try again.

c. Rewrite the quote in his own words and not worry about the citation
Incorrect. Please try again.

d. Ask his teacher how to cite it Incorrect. Please try again.

e. B or D Correct! Matt could simply avoid the problem of how to properly cite
the quote by not using it but in the long run he is better knowing how to cite
a quote from a source like Wikipedia and should turn to his instructor for
help. 5. English is not Nil’s first language. He has found though over the
years that he can do research very well. When he has a paper due, he spends a
few hours online researching and copies things he finds useful into a Word
document. He then spends time outlining his paper and pasting the passages of
text he found under each section in his outline. He then changes some of the
words and adds his own bit throughout the paper but doesn’t actually cite where
or what actually came from sources on the Web. What type of plagiarism is this?

a. Word-for-word copying Incorrect. Please try again.

b. It isn't plagiarism Incorrect. Please try again.

c. Submitting someone else's work as one's own Incorrect. Please try again.

d. The Mosaic Correct! Even though English is not Nil’s first language, this is
a clear example of the Mosaic and an example of plagiarism. 6. Paul learned
during high school that you only have to put quotation marks around a direct
quote if you are using a complete sentence word-for-word. So for years he has
taken time to always add a citation to support his claims but has only added
quotation marks around complete sentences copied word-for-word and not short
phrases. Paul is accused of plagiarizing but because he didn’t mean to do it
and was simply writing the way he was taught, he is not guilty of plagiarizing.

True Incorrect. Please try again.

False Correct! Many of us have picked up bad writing habits over the years.
Some of these were taught by others. But in this case, simply because Paul
didn’t mean to plagiarize doesn’t lesson the offense. 7. Leslie had a death in
her family. She has a paper due on Friday and doesn’t have the time to write
it. She heard about a paper mill online in which she can pay $50 for papers.
She buys a paper and turns it in. Her professor suspects that this might not be
Leslie’s work so she uploads it to Turnitin and finds out that this paper was
written by someone else. Which of the following are possible consequences for
Leslie’s actions?

a. Being required to re-write the assignment Incorrect. Please try again.

b. Getting a failing grade on the assignment Incorrect. Please try again.

c. Suspension from the program Incorrect. Please try again.

d. Expulsion from the university Incorrect. Please try again.

e. All of the above Correct! Each of your instructors might handle a case of
plagiarism differently. Don’t assume that they will handle it the same or that
they will simply let you re-write the assignment.
