RADSCI 300
Group Research Paper
OVERVIEW
Each group is required to complete a research paper. This is a group project, to be
completed by all members of your study group. It is recommended you begin
considering a topic immediately, so you have enough time to thoroughly research the
subject matter. Please note: You will be required to evaluate yourself and peers at the
end of this project. Your instructor will reference the responsibilities listed in the charter
when assessing the peer evaluations. Peers will not be accountable or lose points on their
peer evaluations for not completing responsibilities that haven’t been welldefined
in
your charter.
Objectives: To demonstrate written communication skills with regards to the field of
radiography. To investigate and research a topic of interest related to the field of Imaging
Sciences.
Soft Deadlines and Required Deadlines: To help you stay on pace and successfully
manage this project over the upcoming weeks, refer to the table below. The items in red
are due dates for required assignments . The remaining information shows the amount of
time that has been allocated within the course for you to work on this research paper, as
well as some time management suggestions for how to ‘chunk’ your time so you stay on
pace. This table should help you to use your time individually and as a group to
maximize your time and focus your efforts. Note: The ‘X’ on Saturdays means only
that nothing is due that day. Bear in mind that you’ll have other assignments due in
each of these weeks, this table is only referring to Research Paper tasks and
strategies to stay on pace.
Tues 11:59 pm Thur 11:59 pm Sat 11:59 pm
Week 05 Charter (30 min)
Research topics of
interest/Select topi c (2
hours)
One person from the
group emails instructor
your group’s chosen
topic by 11:59 pm
APA video s (50 min to
view and note)
Make notes on
research topic (60 min)
Week 06 Research Paper Pre p (3 Research Paper Pre p
1

hr)
Prewriting,
literature
reviewed/literature
review drafted,
framework, rough drafts
of content
(3 hr)
Interactive review of
drafts, collaborate on
edits
Week 07
Final edits, final review.
(120 min )
Research Paper Due
Groupmate
and self
evaluation Due (30
min)
Suggested Topics to Consider:
. Upgrading or integrating a new PACS system
. Recommended Dose Adaptations with use of EI exposure indicators
. Interprofessional Collaboration in a Healthcare Environment
. Perceptions
. Readiness
. Effects of Interprofessional Collaboration on Patient Care
. New technological advances in medical imaging (example: Tomosynthesis)
REQUIRED COMPONENTS AND STRUCTURE
Your research paper must contain the following information and follow this structure.
. Title page (use running head)
. Abstract: Summary of what the reader will find in paper
. Body (required content, but suggested layout of the paper)
. Introduction
. Literature review
. Discussion/Analysis: apply what you learned in literature review to what you
already understand about the topic. Does the literature support, is it congruent
with what you used at a clinical site or have experienced/been exposed to in
practice? Compare/contrast similarities and differences.
. Conclusion: Your conclusions from the literature review and your analysis
. Suggestions for future research and/or investigations
2

. Reference Page
Note : A portion of the research project includes a literature review. A literature review
is defined as a body of text aimed to review the critical points of current relevant research
literature regarding a particular topic or subject. This portion of your research paper will
tell who has previously investigated your topic, how the topic was investigated, what
these individuals found regarding your topic, and perhaps why/what requirements,
regulations, standards, etc., may have resulted from these studies. Your literature
review must include at a minimum the following resources:
8 resources :
. No more than 4 Internet resources (must be professional
websites such as the CDC, AMA, ACR, health organizations,
healthcare associations)
. 3 Peer reviewed journals
. The remaining may be textbook source
The following areas may be helpful in identifying some resources of information
. BSU Albertsons Library
o Terry Madden College of Health Sciences library
liaison
. Radiology Search engine
o http://www.radiologysearch.net/
LENGTH
. 812
pages ( not including title and reference pages )
REQUIRED FORMATTING
. APA 6 th edition format
SAFEASSIGN PLAGIARISM TOOL ENABLED
This assignment will have SafeAssign enabled, and an Originality Score of higher than
15% will result in a full letter grade reduction on the report. SafeAssign is a plagiarism
detection tool. To learn more about how it works, and how your instructor will see the
report on your work, visit SafeAssign Originality Report .
Your instructor will enable your SafeAssign Originality Report score to be visible to
you. You will also be allowed to submit your research paper twice. Your Originality
Report score on your second submission will be used by the instructor to assess points
deductions. It is strongly recommended that if your Originality Report on your first
submission is 15% or higher, you should modify the highlighted areas in the report
3

(either making them more original, citing them appropriately, or both). This should yield
a lower Originality Report score for your second submission.
Please reference the following link Assignments using SafeAssign , for other valuable tips
to help you improve your grade, understand and avoid plagiarism, and maintain
compliance with academic integrity standards at Boise State
SUBMITTING GROUP ASSIGNMENTS
If you need a quick refresher on how to submit a group assignment, click BbHelp
Submitting Group Assignments .
4

